About joDoc
===========

JavaScript is an extremely expressive language which is often difficult to
describe in terms of meta data and fields. Often, important information that
needs to be documented just doesn't fit into a neat, tidy spot.

joDoc uses markdown as its core to provide simple, human-readable docs which
it converts to HTML.


Autolinker
==========

Basically, anything that ends up in an `<h1>` tag becomes a keyword that:

- appears in the keyword index
- is turned into a link wherever it is used in your documentation text
- resolves in the TOC into links


Injecting HTML Snippets
=======================

Markdown supports inline HTML, so your code comments and markdown files may
have arbitrary bits of HTML in them.

joDoc *also* supports HTML files, so you can use it to bring together docs
built from other tools. The autolink feature works at the HTML level, so by
just including HTML files in your doc project, they become linkable from other
document pages automatically.


Comparison
==========

vs. jsdoc
---------

jsdoc in its various incarnations and some of its spawn like yuidoc take the approach
that "what is good for Java is good for JavaScript". All these flavors are based on
javadoc formatting, and have been in use for some time.

Aside from the regimented markup being a bit odd to read (admit it, even Java developers
don't _love_ it), it suffers from an inflexibility with regard to all the coding
patterns available with JavaScript. Basically, it fails due for the same reason that all
JavaScript libraries which attempt to subvert JavaScript's natural object model fail.
These solutions, while influential in the idea that _some_ form consistent coding
approach could help us make better code, are not in the spirit of embracing JavaScript.

Why then do so many developers continue to use a _documentation_ tool which was born
of the same well-meaning yet misguided logic of "let's pretend JavaScript is Java"?

vs. Natural Docs
----------------

Excellent effort, but complex to set up and also tries to make a regimented system for
documenting source code. It is extendable, but again, we have a documentation solution
which is trying to force JavaScript into a more limited set of features.


joDoc Process
=============

For those who want more insight into how the documentation is created:

	for each markdown file in your project,
		convert to an HTML file
	
	for each source file,
		produce a markdown file from all text between `/**` and `*/` comments
		convert the markdown file into an HTML file
	
	for each HTML file,
		for each `h1` tag,
			add an `id` field based on the contents of the `h1` tag
			add contents to a `file.html#id` keyword index
	
	for each HTML file,
		for each keyword in our index,
			intelligently wrap the keyword with an `a` tag
			that points to the `file.html#id` from our keyword index
	
	produce an index:
		sort the keyword index
		save the keyword index as an HTML file
		save the keyword index as a JSON file

	produce a table of contents:
		build sections based on directory names
		retain sorted directory order
		save as a JSON file
		save as a formatted HTML file

	concat all html files into one document:
		structure:
			header
			table of contents
			contents from all html files, in order
			sorted keyword index
			footer
		convert all fixed paths to local references:
			(e.g. `filename.html#about` becomes simply `#about`)

This produces a bundle of files which can be used a couple of ways:

1. A loose set of files which is used by the joDoc application (written
   using the jo library, of course)

2. An alternative "single page" view of all the documentation (which some
   people really like)

3. Your own collection of files with some other organization means (which
   is trivial to do with pre-rendered HTML and the JSON document
   structure).

