joDoc
=====

joDoc is a plain text code documentation scheme for JavaScript. It was created out of
frustration felt working with various documentation systems available. joDoc does not
attempt to perform any special automation other than generating links, table of
contents, an index, and of course rendered HTML for your documentation.

> Note that joDoc is not ready for release, and some of the advanced features are still
> in flux.

Source code formatting
----------------------

This is a simple example of what you can do in your source documentation. This is all
free-form markdown text.

	/**
		myClass
		=======
		
		This is my class. It rocks, and this is its _description_, which also
		rocks.
		
		Extends
		-------

		- someOtherClass
		
		Methods
		-------

		- setName(name)

		  Where `name` is a `String`.
		
		Use
		---
			// here is some sample code which shows how to use this class
			var x = new myClass(name);
		
		> Note: use of the `name` reserved word is probaly a bad idea.
	*/


Comment placement
-----------------

You can put your comments for your code either:

1. in your source code (anywhere and in as many pieces as you want) denoted with
   `/**  ... */` multiline-comment blocks

2. separate markdown (`*.mdown`) files, probably (tho not necessarily) named to
   match your JavaScript files

Can't get much more flexible than that.


Requirements
------------

1. perl 5.8 or greater (*YMMV with older perl versions*)
2. [Markdown.pl](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) (or compatible parser)
3. [SmartyPants.pl](http://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants/) (*optional*)

> Windows users should get some suggestions for installing ActiveState or cygwin


Use
---

	jodoc [--output path] [--title string] [--toc file] [--template file] [--markdown file] [-s] [--smartypants file] [filespec]

- `--output path`

  specify a path to where you want doc files placed

- `--toc file`

  joDoc will work with a table of contents structure defined in a markdown
  file. Your TOC file can be completely manual, just a list of atuo-linked
  terms (or markdown or even HTML style links), but joDoc will do do more
  if you want it. For example:

		Developer Guide
		---------------

		- {ABOUT.mdown}
		- {README.mdown}
		- {docs/}
		- {LICENSE.mdown}

		API Reference
		-------------

		### Core
		- {js/core}

		### Data
		- {js/data}

		### User Interface
		- {js/ui}

  You can put a file path inside the {} pairs, and joDoc will attempt to find
  and sort all the headers from the files which match that pattern.

> NOTE: the TOC is not a replacement for the `filespec` in the command line.
> You need to make sure to tell joDoc what directorie(s) to parse. The TOC is
> a semi-automated document which can be useful but is not required.

- `--markdown file`

  tells joDoc to use a specific markdown parser.

- `--title string`

  is an optional title which will appear on your HTML output.

- `--template file`

  tells joDoc to use a custom HTML file as a template, a simple example:

		<html><head><title>$title</title></head>
		<body>$body</body></html>

- `--smartypants`

  tells joDoc to use a specific smartypants prettifier.

- `-s`

  tells joDoc to filter output through SmartyPants.

- `filespec`

  is one or more files to parse, wildcards are supported.


Examples
--------

Simple case:

	jodoc

By default, joDoc will start in the current directory and recursively look for
`*.mdown`, `.*.js` and `*.css` files to build documentation. Unless directed
otherwise, joDoc will print a unified HTML file on standard out with all the
documentation output.

Specifying an output base directory:

	jodoc --output /var/www/html/docs

Specifying files to parse:

	jodoc ABOUT *.js *.css

Defining a table of contents structure:

	jodoc --toc ~/release.toc

